+++
date = "2016-08-04T13:02:11-04:00"
draft = false
title = "A Good Story"

+++

**This is a good story.**

**Good stories are important.**

I needed to get out of the city.  I always need to get out of the city, until I find myself anywhere else, then I need to get back to the city.  Half the decisions in my life have been predicated on that emotional dichotomy. So anyway, I applied for a hotel job in Whitehorse, in the Yukon.  If you’re unfamiliar with Canadian geography, the Yukon is the part up top by Alaska, with the bears and glaciers and all that stuff.  I was drunk when I got called for my phone interview, I think that helped me get the job.  My interviewer and I just shot the shit for an hour or so, I don’t think we talked about the job at all. To this day I don’t know if the woman who called me knew I was drunk when we talked, though I doubt she would have cared. She might even have seen it as a positive.  The places at the very edges of the map don’t work in quite the same way as the rest of the world.  What the Yukon wants and needs of its potential residents, are people who will happily carry on a conversation with the person sat next to them at the bar, no matter how unhinged that person might be.  A quality I pride myself on.       

That’s all just the setup though, the good part is coming.  I meet the girl in the next part.  I know boy meets girl stories are annoying, trust me, I’m annoyed too.  The problem is, I cant even remember what the fuck I had for lunch today, but I have an almost absurdly detailed memory of the first time I saw the girl in this story.  So this story is about a girl, if you find that idea too cloying or sentimental then this is your stop and you are more than welcome to fuck right off.

I was too poor to fly to Whitehorse, so I took the proud and noble Greyhound. 5500 kilometres on a bus might seem like a lot if you’re afraid of danger, but I’ve been back and forth across this continent on the Greyhound several times now, so it was nothing new to me.  It’s not so bad really, if you follow a few simple rules.  

First, avoid the crazies. If you can’t identify the crazies yourself, avoid the people everyone else are avoiding.  Second, bring some books you always meant to read but that always seemed too long or daunting before (reading War and Peace cover to cover in a couple days is probably the best way to make sense of all the confusing names, for what that’s worth).  Third, if someone offers you drugs to help you sleep, you can generally assume it is being done in good faith. It’s an open secret that Greyhound busses are the #1 choice for smugglers on a budget.  If you feel that you’re above smoking a little hash oil, or popping a couple valium, even when trying to sleep on a noisy, spasmodic bus, well, the Greyhound isn’t for you. Finally, if the Greyhound station you’re at has security guards around the clock, do not leave that station for any reason.  There are places here and there where even us bus people need protection, it would be a bad idea to take that lightly.

So anyway, we were a few hours north of Toronto and I was stoned out of my mind on some potent edibles I’d brought because I’m a seasoned Greyhound veteran, and I knew what the fuck I was about.  I’d just finished reading Ubik by Philip K. Dick as well, which adds a little more nuance to my mental state, if you’re familiar with Dick’s work.  At this point, the driver announced that another bus had broken down, and our bus would be taking on that bus’s passengers.  This information pissed me off. I was fucking livid. As a savvy Greyhound patron, I had made sure to secure the three seats by the bathroom all to myself. I’m 6’3” and I’ve learned through experience that enduring the smells, or maybe even the sounds of a few crazies masturbating in the stall (I wish that was just a hypothetical), were well worth it, because two seats are insufficient space for me to properly stretch my legs. A Greyhound trip from Toronto to Vancouver, a few years earlier, had taught me that if I couldn’t fully extend my legs from time to to time on the trip, I wouldn’t be able to walk when I got to my destination.  I like walking, I needed those three seats.

Back to the story. So, the assholes from the other bus are boarding.  I’m glaring at each of them, trying to look like a shitty seatmate, as best I can.  Maybe, with a little luck, I could even look like one of the crazies.  I suppose I should describe what I looked like at this point.  Basically, imagine a punk rocker who was too lazy to fully commit to the aesthetic.  I had on an old army surplus jacket, it was Canadian so it was straight green, not camo. I was probably wearing some ripped skinny jeans. I was definitely wearing Converse Hi-Tops, probably bright red. I remember I had a Motorhead T-Shirt I liked to wear back then, so if I wasn’t wearing that, I was wearing something similar.  I distinctly remember I had my Jeyne hat on too. As in from Firefly. If you don’t know what kind of hat that is, google it.  Anyway, that was me, trying as hard as I could to intimidate people.  I’m tall sure, but I’m gangly. I was dressed kind of strange, but it was a fucking Greyhound so everyone looked strange. To be honest, I wasn’t feeling too confident.

Things did actually seem to go well though.  The first potential risk was a great big guy, big enough to take two of my three seats all for himself if I was unlucky, but he avoided me. Next, a crazy came up the steps, with a garbage bag as a carry-on no less, not a good sign, but once again I was spared.  This went on for a while, every potential disaster was averted, my seats remained in my possession. I couldn’t believe my luck.  I began to wonder if maybe I was as punk on the outside as I felt on the inside. Maybe I projected an aura of toughness that I wasn’t even aware of! (I’ve asked around, and I have learned that this is not the case. Many people I asked laughed... I feel that was unnecessary).  

This next part though, it happens real slow.  The rest of the bullshit in this article is all vague, and I might be remembering it wrong, but this next bit is burned into my memory.  A girl came up the stairs next,  walking slow.  She was wearing a leather jacket, her hair was jet black with a strip dyed blue, and she had a Monroe piercing on her upper lip.  Her face was heart shaped and she had gigantic brown eyes, like a fucking anime character.  She was absolutely beautiful.  Striking, like the kind of girl you’d expect to meet in a movie about meeting a girl on a bus, but would never actually meet on a dirty fucking Greyhound bus.  Except, I did.  

I’m falling in love at first sight at this point in the story.  This is new to me, but I knew I had to act fast.  I used all the mind powers the cannabis in my system convinced me I had.  I begged the universe and whatever higher powers I could think of to make her sit next to me.  Do me this solid Krishna or Jesus or whoever else is up there, I prayed,  I don’t ask for much.  I almost feel guilty now for using such heavy handed tactics just to make a pretty girl sit next to me, but fuck it, it worked.  I'll be damned if that very girl didn't sit down right next to me. For the first time in my life my mind powers actually worked.  It all came at a price though.  I was too stoned to put together complete sentences, so I didn’t actually manage to speak to her at all. That's a bit of an anticlimax I know, but the good part is coming later.  Plus, if nothing else, “I met a girl on a Greyhound bus and we fell in love,” is a great one liner, even if the first and second parts didn’t strictly happen at the same time.  

Stories aren’t true anyway, none of them.  At any moment an infinite number of things are happening in the universe, all affecting each other, sometimes a lot, sometimes a little.  A story is an attempt to grab a few of these things, put them in order, and try to explain something, try to make somebody understand something. The story of the girl I met on the Greyhound bus might be called a true story, all the details I’ve used are true.  That problem though, is there are just as many details I didn’t use, or wasn’t even aware of, that you could tell a completely different story and it would be equally true.  The story of the girl I met on the bus is a *good* story though, and that is so much more important.  There is enough random crap that happens every day to fashion any kind of true story you want, but a good story, a good story is what makes life worth living.

So against all odds and all reason, and though our routes sometimes separated and came back together, bus girl’s ultimate destination was also Whitehorse, to work at the very same hotel as me. (No shit).  I’m not sure how often it happens that a drug addled fool falls in love at first sight, blows it, and then is given an entire summer to fix his mistake, but let's just say I did not let her slip away.  We spoke constantly at work, texted all day every day, and found any excuse to be together, until eventually she got frustrated and made a move (not making a move is kind of my move). After that we were together.

I can’t leave it at that. I should, part of me wants to, I know she’ll hate me for telling this part of the story, but I just can’t not tell it.  This is how this lovely woman, a person I spent years of my life with, made her move.  Let it live in infamy for all time.  We were at a now defunct bar called “Foxy’s Cabaret” (amazing name right) with a large group of friends.  It was late and everyone was  drunk, and somehow, it was just her and I at the table.  She then began to rub my leg under the table, and when I turned to look at her she gave what I can only describe as a drunk person attempting a ‘come hither’ look for the very first time in their life, she kind of... leaned back awkwardly, and while winking slowly she muttered ‘yeahhhhh.’  Nobody will ever top that, it cannot be topped.  I will never be seduced that effectively ever again.  Women everywhere take note, because that is how it is fucking done.

That summer was magical, I couldn’t even begin to share everything that happened.  Bus girl and I sneaked around for a while, badly, fooling nobody, and  eventually just started sharing the same room.  I was living with a gay couple at the time, and while I'm not saying that gay men are wiser in matters of the heart than everyone else (they are though) they will absolutely notice when a pair of women's shoes are still there in the morning... all week.  So fuck it, she just decided not to bother pretending to leave one day.

I remember one night bus girl and I were finishing off all the tiny liquor bottles that had at one time been in a pinata (party leftovers), and I was showing her Bob Dylan on my laptop.  It was one of those rare occasions when you’re trying to show someone why you love an artist and they get it, and they’re excited, and everyhing is just clicking. Those moments are special.  I love Dylan because he turns phrases like nobody else ever had, or was even capable of, and when I’d point out the lyrics that really spoke to me, she got it, she picked up on what made me love it so much.  In an instant the memories of a thousand mixed cds that had fallen on deaf ears, the thousand times I’d been stopped halfway though reading ‘The Lovesong of J. Alfred Prufrock’ because it was too boring, it was all gone.  

She showed me Kurt Vonnegut in return, so we’re even on that front I guess.  Close to even anyway. Obviously it’s impossible to compare listening to Blonde on Blonde for the first time and reading Slaughterhouse Five for the first time because they’re completely different mediums and it would be unfair, but at the same time, I like apples better than oranges, and Blonde on Blonde better than Slaughterhouse Five, so fuck it, fight me.  

That summer stands out in my mind as one of the better times in my life.  I climbed a mountain, a real one, not some bitch-ass tourist attraction.  I couldn’t walk for a day afterward.  I remember one day I was sitting at the edge of a cliff smoking my corn cob pipe and a golden eagle flew within inches of my face, it was huge and majestic and it scared the fuck out of me. I stood on a glacier, I saw grizzly bears, I hiked for hours whenever I wanted and wherever I wanted because the sun never set.  I saw lakes that nobody had ever even bothered to name.  There’s a better than decent chance I stood on ground that no other person has ever stood on.  I also fell in love with bus girl, which turned out to be the most important thing of all.  

So how does this story end?  What happened with bus girl?  Well, lots of things.  I have a million stories about bus girl.  Stories are so much better than life.  In life, there are no happy endings.  If you love someone, either you break up, or one of you has to watch the other die.  Everyone we love dies and the only way to avoid that pain is to die first. It’s unbelievably horrible, almost too much to bear.  That’s why the stories we tell are so important, because we get to choose where they end, the only happy endings are the ones we invent.

So, here is my ending.

Bus girl and I left Whitehorse and went to Montreal. After drinking Molson Export at Bistro a JoJo and listening to the Blues all night, we were drunk as hell trying to find our way back to our hostel.  Bus girl stopped and pointed down one of the narrow streets of Old Montreal and yelled “we have to go this way!”  She then took off running, anything and everything in her pockets flying out into the street. I’m not sure what all she lost that night, but she definitely lost her debit card. It’s not really an important detail, but nobody on earth has ever lost more debit cards than bus girl, don’t even try to challenge her on that.  Anyway, I chased after her and we ran until we were out of breath.  

Then, there we stood, in the dark, at some strange narrow intersection in the old city catching our breath.  I’m sure we were probably laughing, bus girl was probably saying something about how we needed to go to the bank in the morning so she could get a new debit card.  After a moment I looked around, and then she looked around, and we began to realize that she had taken us in completely the wrong direction.  We wandered the streets of Montreal for hours, completely lost.

The End.

After we left Montreal we went back to my place in Toronto.  We lived  together.  I have a thousand happy memories of that time, and just as many unhappy ones, but they aren’t part of this story.  I also have a couple endings I could use that still hurt to think about, but this story, the one I’m telling now, ends as summer was turning to autumn, in Montreal, laying in the grass soaking up the last of the summer sun in the vieux porte.  

**This is a good story.  One of mine.**
